.TH PATTERNS 1 "Feb 10, 1992" "Patterns"

.SH NAME
patterns -- summarize file access patterns in a trace


.SH SYNOPSIS
 

.nf

patterns [ -v ] [ -d ] [ -f filterfile ] file

.fi 

.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
 
patterns reads a trace and prints a summary of file access patterns
based on close records occurring in the trace \fIfile.\fR The summary
includes the number of read-only, write-only, and read-write accesses
to files, as well as bytes transferred for each access type.  In
addition, each of these access type is further broken down into
whole-file tranfer, other sequential access, and random access.  Only
close records with a reference count of 1 are used in this summary,
because the statistics reported on close are cumulative.

.PP

.SH OPTIONS


.PD 0

.TP 12

.BR -d
 Prints library debugging information.  Lots of it.

.TP

.BR -f\ filterfile
 Apply the filter in \fIfilterfile\fR to the trace.

.TP

.BR -v
 Verbose mode.  Prints information on what the library is doing.



.PP

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

The following are frequently encountered errors:

.PP
can't process file \fIfile\fR -- the file wasn't there or 
if a filter file was specified, it couldn't be applied.

.PP

.SH SEE ALSO

replay, tstat

.PP

.SH BUGS

The summary access information in CLOSE records (number of bytes read,
written) is cumulative.  For example, if a file is open and the
descriptor is dup'ed, and then the file is manipulated by both agents,
the statistics reported will be the sum of their accesses, and there
is no way to tell from the final close who did which accesses.  (One
can tell by tracking the intermediate closes, but this program does
not do that.)  So if one if the agents only reads the file, and the
other only writes, the complete session, from data in the last CLOSE
record, will be reported as a read-write access.

.PP

.SH AUTHOR
 
Lily B.  Mummert
