.TH SESSIONS 1 "Feb 10, 1992" "Sessions"

.SH NAME
sessions -- print active sessions in a trace


.SH SYNOPSIS
 

.nf

sessions [ -v ] [ -d ] [ -f filterfile ] [ -i interval ] [ -s session ]
	 [ -g gap ] [ -a activity ] file

.fi 

.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
 
sessions locates active periods in the trace \fIfile.\fR A 
\fIsession\fR  is composed of \fIintervals\fR of time of a specified 
\fIactivity level\fR (measured by number of operations in the interval),
possibly including a number of intervals below that activity level, or
\fIgaps.\fR By default, the length of an interval is 900 seconds (15
minutes), and a session in composed of 16 intervals (4 hours).  An
active session has at least 16 operations per interval, but it may
have gaps of up to 4 intervals that fall under that level.   These
settings will locate long stretches of fairly low activity.  All are
parameters, and are listed in the options below.

.PP
The set of operations used to determine activity is a subset of the
opcodes in a trace.  That subset is open, close, unlink, creat, chmod,
rename, rmdir, link, chown, mkdir, symlink, truncate, utimes, stat,
lstat, access, readlink, lookup, getsymlink, and root.  These are
further divided into mutations and nonmutations for the purposes
of reporting.

.PP

.SH OPTIONS


.PD 0

.TP 12

.BR -a\ activity
 The desired activity level, in operations per
interval.  The set of operations is defined above.  This is
a thresholding parameter.  The default is 16.

.TP

.BR -d
 Prints library debugging information.  Lots of it.

.TP

.BR -f\ filterfile
 Apply the filter in \fIfilterfile\fR to the trace.

.TP

.BR -g\ gap
 Maximum length of a gap allowable in an active session,
in intervals.  Default is 4.

.TP

.BR -i\ interval
 Length of an interval, in seconds.  Default is 900.

.TP

.BR -s\ session
 Length of a session, in intervals.  Default is 16.

.TP

.BR -v
 Verbose mode.  Prints information on what the library is doing.



.PP

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

The following are frequently encountered errors:

.PP
can't process file \fIfile\fR -- the file wasn't there or 
if a filter file was specified, it couldn't be applied.

.PP

.SH AUTHOR
 
Initial version by James Jay Kistler.  Updated by
Lily B.  Mummert.
