.TH UNTRACE 1 "Feb 10, 1992" "Untrace"

.SH NAME
untrace -- recreate actions from a trace


.SH SYNOPSIS
 

.nf

untrace [ -d ] [ -f filterfile ] [ -m ] [ -r replayfile ] 
	[ -s skeletonfile ] [ -v ] [ -xp ] file

.fi 

.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
 
untrace reads the trace in \fIfile\fR and attempts to reconstruct the
actions in the trace.  The program outputs two files -- a \fIskeleton\fR 
file and a \fIreplay\fR file.  The skeleton file contains
commands to build a skeleton of the file system needed for the trace
actions to be replayed.  The replay file contains those actions.   The
command files may be replayed by \fIcreplay.\fR 
The program makes two passes over the input tracefile.  The first simply builds
data structures which allow the set of skeleton-building commands to be emitted
at completion.  The second pass emits the replay commands as it processes each
record.

.PP

.SH OPTIONS


.PD 0

.TP 12

.BR -d
 Delta for think time, in seconds.  If the time difference
 trace records is greated than this value, a delay of the 
 difference will be inserted.

.TP

.BR -f\ filterfile
 Apply the filter in \fIfilterfile\fR to the trace.

.TP

.BR -m
 Consider only mutations to objects in the file system.

.TP

.BR -r\ replayfile
 Name of the file in which to put the commands that
replay actions in the trace.  Default is \fIreplay.cmd.\fR 
.TP

.BR -s\ skeletonfile
 Name of the file in which to put the commands that
build the file system structure in which the trace actions occurred.
Default is \fIskeleton.cmd.\fR 
.TP

.BR -v
 Verbose mode.  Prints the number of records handled in units
of 100, messages about interesting inferences, and the structure of
the file system skeleton at the end of the first pass.

.TP

.BR -x
 Allow cross parent links.  Default is to leave
them out, as they will cause the execution of the command
file to fail in AFS or CFS.



.PP

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

The following are frequently encountered errors:

.PP
can't process file \fIfile\fR -- the file wasn't there or if a filter
file was specified, it couldn't be applied.

.PP

.SH SEE ALSO

creplay

.PP

.SH BUGS

Doesn't handle MOUNT or UNMOUNT records.  If either of these is
encountered, the program assertion fails.

.PP
A filter file containing the commands in \fIuntrace.fil\fR must 
be used for correct matching of open and close calls.  These settings
really should be specified in the program.

.PP
Filtering other than that used in \fIuntrace.fil\fR should be used
with extreme care.  It is is helpful only if the filtered actions are
local.   Otherwise, one might be filtering out information needed to
build the file system skeleton.

.PP
There are \fImany\fR wierd cases that haven't been tested.  The program 
will assertion fail if it encounters one.

.PP

.SH AUTHOR
 
Original version by James J.  Kistler.  Updates and minor bug
fixes by Lily B.  Mummert.  
