.TH TRACE_SETFILTER 3 "Feb 10, 1992" "Trace_SetFilter"

.SH NAME
Trace_SetFilter -- filter a trace


.SH SYNOPSIS


.nf

int Trace_SetFilter(fp, fileName)
FILE *fp;
char *fileName;

.fi 

.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION

Trace_SetFilter parses the filter specification in \fIfilename\fR and applies it to the trace in file \fIfp.\fR All future calls to
Trace_GetRecord will be subject to this filter, unless 
Trace_SetFilter is called again.

.PP
Filtering commands are as follows.  Those in [] are optional.

.IP \(bu 3
end \fItime\fR 
The time after which all records will be filtered out.
Any time acceptable to parsedate works.
example: \fIend Feb 25 14:00:00 1991\fR 
.IP \(bu
error ...list of error codes...
example: \fIerror 0\fR 
.IP \(bu
inodetype
Filters based on the inode (vnode) type of the object.
Valid types are ufs, cfs, nfs, afs, bdev, spec.
.IP \(bu
matchfds 
This command applies to file-descriptor based trace records -- seek,
close, read, and write.   If matchfds occurs in the filter file,
only those records that match an open with the same file descriptor
will be presented.   (Really, the file table index is used.)
.IP \(bu
opcode [include/exclude] ...list of opcodes...
The string name of the desired opcode should be used.
example: \fIopcode open close read write seek\fR 
If not set, all opcodes are returned.   Inclusion is
the default.
.IP \(bu
path [include/exclude] ...list of regexps...
Filter based on the list of paths.   Regular expressions
of the form accepted by the regexp package work.  For records
with multiple paths, they are included or excluded if any
of the paths in the records match.
.IP \(bu
pid [include/exclude] ...list of pids...
Records are included or excluded based on the pid's membership
in the supplied list.  Include is the default.
.IP \(bu
refcount n
A hack.   Applies to close -- only those with the specified 
refcount will be presented.  Useful for detecting
a ``real'' close.
.IP \(bu
start time
Records before time are filtered out.  Any time acceptable to
Parsedate works.
.IP \(bu
type  ...list of file types...
The file types are regular, directory, link, block, character,
and socket.  
.IP \(bu
user [include/exclude] ...list of numerical user ids...
If include is specified, only
those records that can be determined to have been written on behalf
of the specified users will be presented.  Similarly, The exclude option
filters out records that can be determined to have been written
on behalf of the specified user.  Inclusion is the default.
example: \fIuser include 2208\fR 

.LP
Use only one of each command in a filter file.

.PP
Filters are intended to give the trace user a mechanism for processing
traces in a variety of ways using a given program.   If an analysis
program only looks at certain types of records (such as CLOSEs), then
that should be coded into the analysis program (i.e., the program's
requirements for records should not be specified in a filter).

.PP

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

Returns TRACE_FILERECORDNOTFOUND if fp is not an open trace.
Returns TRACE_FILENOTFOUND if the filter file cannot be
opened for read access.  Otherwise, returns TRACE_SUCCESS.

.PP

.SH AUTHOR

Lily B.  Mummert

.PP
